About Pixie + eBPF (#68)
pixie-labs/pixie-docs: content/en/01-about-pixie/03-pixie-ebpf.md

---
title: "Pixie + eBPF"
metaTitle: "About Pixie | Pixie + eBPF"
metaDescription: "How Pixie uses eBPF to automatically collect data"
order: 3

> ---

Reviewer: Could you add a few more links to this page throughout the docs:
- Pixie Overview: "Pixie uses eBPF" (replace existing link to Gregg's blog), "PEMs use eBPF"
- Data Sources: "Pixie uses eBPF" (replace existing link to Gregg's blog)
- "FAQ": "Pixie uses eBPF", "using eBPF"

> Pixie uses eBPF to drive much of the data collection on your Kubernetes applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pixie uses [eBPF](https://www.brendangregg.com/ebpf.html) to drive much its data collection.
```

> Pixie's eBPF based approach enables it to collect the data in a way that requires no user instrumentation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This eBPF-based approach enables Pixie to collect data in a way that requires no user instrumentation
```

(i.e. no code changes, no redeployments), and with very low overhead.

> Pixie sets up eBPF probes to trigger on a number of kernel or user-space events,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During deployment, Pixie sets up eBPF probes to trigger on a number of kernel or user-space events
```

Author: 1) Not entirely true that we only set up eBPF probes during deployment. We also add probes at other times as well.
2) The "During deployment" makes the "at which time it collects..." a bit ambiguous.

Reviewer: Is this second paragraph necessary? I think it may duplicate information below.

at which time it collects the data of interest, such as various protocol messages. Additional details on how
Pixie uses eBPF in its different features are described below.

## Protocol Tracing

One of the main features of Pixie is its ability to automatically trace protocol messages.

> In the protocol tracer, eBPF kernel probes (kprobes) are set-up to trigger on Linux syscalls used for networking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When Pixie is deployed to the nodes in your cluster, eBPF kernel probes (kprobes) are set-up to trigger on Linux syscalls used for networking.
```

> Then, when syscalls such as `send()` and `recv()` are called by the application, Pixie's eBPF probe snoops the data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When your applications makes network related syscalls -- such as `send()` and `recv()` -- Pixie's eBPF probe snoops the data
```

and sends it the PEM. The data is then parsed according the detected protocol and stored for querying.

::: div image-l
<svg title='Pixie Protocol Tracing with eBPF' src='pixie-ebpf/protocol_tracing.svg' />
:::

### Tracing TLS/SSL Connections

Pixie's SSL tracing works in a similar way as its basic protocol tracing, with one main difference:
Instead of using eBPF to snoop the data at `send()` and `recv()`, eBPF user-space probes (uprobes)
are set-up directly on the TLS library's API. This enables Pixie to capture the data before it is encrypted.

> Pixie currently supports this approach for `OpenSSL` and for Golang's `crypto/tls` library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pixie supports several [encryption libraries](/about-pixie/data-sources/#encryption-libraries).
```

::: div image-l
<svg title='Pixie TLS/SSL Protocol Tracing with eBPF' src='pixie-ebpf/protocol_tracing_tls.svg' />
:::

> ## Application CPU profiling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Application CPU Profiling
```

> The Pixie continuous profiler uses eBPF to periodically interrupt the CPU. During this process, the eBPF probe

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pixie's [continuous profiler](/tutorials/pixie-101/profiler) uses eBPF to periodically interrupt the CPU. During this process, the eBPF probe
```

inspects the currently running program, and collects a stack trace to record where the program was executing.

This approach to CPU profiling is called a sampling-based profiler. By only triggering at a very low frequency
(approximately once every 10 ms), the overhead is negligible. The sampling rate, however, is sufficient
to identify the applications that are using the CPU the most, and which parts of the code is typically being executed.

::: div image-xl
<svg title='Application CPU Profiling with eBPF' src='pixie-ebpf/profiler_ebpf.png' />
:::

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To learn more about how we built Pixie's eBPF-based continuous profiler, see the [blog post](https://blog.px.dev/cpu-profiling/).
```

## Distributed bpftrace Scripts

> eBPF is also used in Pixie's distributed [bpftrace](https://github.com/iovisor/bpftrace) script deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
eBPF is also used in Pixie's [distributed bpftrace script deployment](/tutorials/custom-data/distributed-bpftrace-deployment/).
```

In this case, you can write your own custom BPF code, using the bpftrace format. Pixie orchestrates the
deployment of the BPF code and records the results in a structured way into its data tables.

## Dynamic Logging

> With Pixie's dynamic logging feature (currently supported for Golang), you specify a function in your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Pixie's [dynamic logging feature](/tutorials/custom-data/dynamic-go-logging/) (currently supported for Golang), you specify a function in your
```

---
title: "Pixie + eBPF"
metaTitle: "About Pixie | Pixie + eBPF"
metaDescription: "How Pixie uses eBPF to automatically collect data"
order: 3
---

> Pixie uses [eBPF](https://www.brendangregg.com/ebpf.html) to drive much its data collection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pixie uses [eBPF](https://www.brendangregg.com/ebpf.html) to drive much of its data collection.
```

This eBPF-based approach enables Pixie to collect data in a way that requires no user instrumentation

> (i.e. no code changes, no redeployments), and with very low overhead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(i.e. no code changes, no redeployments) and has very low overhead.
```

Pixie sets up eBPF probes to trigger on a number of kernel or user-space events,
at which time it collects the data of interest, such as various protocol messages. Additional details on how
Pixie uses eBPF in its different features are described below.

## Protocol Tracing

One of the main features of Pixie is its ability to automatically trace protocol messages.

> When Pixie is deployed to the nodes in your cluster, it deploys eBPF kernel probes (kprobes) that are set-up to trigger

Reviewer 2: set up not set-up

> When Pixie is deployed to the nodes in your cluster, it deploys eBPF kernel probes (kprobes) that are set-up to trigger

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When Pixie is deployed to the nodes in your cluster, it deploys eBPF kernel probes (kprobes) that are set up to trigger
```

on Linux syscalls used for networking. Then, when your application makes network-related syscalls  -- such as `send()` and `recv()` --

> Pixie's eBPF probes snoop the data and sends it to the PEM. The data is then parsed according the detected protocol and stored for querying.

Reviewer 2: link to architecture diagram? or "record it in the system". casual readers won't know what a PEM is

> Pixie's eBPF probes snoop the data and sends it to the PEM. The data is then parsed according the detected protocol and stored for querying.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pixie's eBPF probes snoop the data and send it to the [PEM](/about-pixie/what-is-pixie/#architecture) where it is parsed according the detected protocol and stored for querying.
```

::: div image-l
<svg title='Pixie Protocol Tracing with eBPF' src='pixie-ebpf/protocol_tracing.svg' />
:::

### Tracing TLS/SSL Connections

Pixie's SSL tracing works in a similar way as its basic protocol tracing, with one main difference:
Instead of using eBPF to snoop the data at `send()` and `recv()`, eBPF user-space probes (uprobes)

> are set-up directly on the TLS library's API. This enables Pixie to capture the data before it is encrypted.

Reviewer 2: set up

Reviewer 2: maybe dumb question: also before it is encrypted, isn't it after it is decrypted?

Author: We want to capture the data before it it's encrypted so we can see the content.

> are set-up directly on the TLS library's API. This enables Pixie to capture the data before it is encrypted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are set up directly on the TLS library's API. This enables Pixie to capture the data before it is encrypted.
```

Pixie supports several [encryption libraries](/about-pixie/data-sources/#encryption-libraries),
including `OpenSSL`.

::: div image-l
<svg title='Pixie TLS/SSL Protocol Tracing with eBPF' src='pixie-ebpf/protocol_tracing_tls.svg' />
:::

## Application CPU Profiling

Pixie's [continuous profiler](/tutorials/pixie-101/profiler) uses eBPF to periodically interrupt the CPU. During this process, the eBPF probe

> inspects the currently running program, and collects a stack trace to record where the program was executing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
inspects the currently running program and collects a stack trace to record where the program was executing.
```

This approach to CPU profiling is called a sampling-based profiler. By only triggering at a very low frequency
(approximately once every 10 ms), the overhead is negligible. The sampling rate, however, is sufficient
to identify the applications that are using the CPU the most, and which parts of the code is typically being executed.

::: div image-xl
<svg title='Application CPU Profiling with eBPF' src='pixie-ebpf/profiler_ebpf.png' />
:::

To learn more about how we built Pixie's eBPF-based continuous profiler, see the [blog post](https://blog.px.dev/cpu-profiling/).

## Distributed bpftrace Scripts

eBPF is also used in Pixie's [distributed bpftrace script deployment](/tutorials/custom-data/distributed-bpftrace-deployment/).
In this case, you can write your own custom BPF code, using the bpftrace format. Pixie orchestrates the

> deployment of the BPF code and records the results in a structured way into its data tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
deployment of the BPF code to all the nodes in your cluster and records the results in a structured way into its data tables.
```

---
title: "Pixie + eBPF"

> metaTitle: "About Pixie | Pixie + eBPF"

Reviewer 2: I think it would be better to say How Pixie Uses eBPF  or something like that so we don't imply a parternship w/ ebpf?

metaDescription: "How Pixie uses eBPF to automatically collect data"
order: 3
---

Pixie uses [eBPF](https://www.brendangregg.com/ebpf.html) to drive much of its data collection.

> This eBPF-based approach enables Pixie to efficiently collect data in a way that requires no user instrumentation

Reviewer 2: this approach

(i.e. no code changes, no redeployments).

Pixie sets up eBPF probes to trigger on a number of kernel or user-space events,

> at which time it collects the data of interest, such as various protocol messages. Additional details on how

Reviewer 2: Maybe: 
The next section will cover how Pixie uses eBPF in some of its key features.

Pixie uses eBPF in its different features are described below.

## Protocol Tracing

One of the main features of Pixie is its ability to automatically trace protocol messages.

When Pixie is deployed to the nodes in your cluster, it deploys eBPF kernel probes (kprobes) that are set up to trigger

> on Linux syscalls used for networking. Then, when your application makes network-related syscalls  -- such as `send()` and `recv()` --

Reviewer 2: Sentence starting with Then should be broken up
